# Advanced Actions

## Held Actions

Sometimes the circumstances aren’t exactly right for the action you want to take. When that happens, you can choose to wait until just the right moment by Holding your Action. To Hold your Action you must declare an Action you want to take and state a Trigger. Once you do so, you can’t change the Action or Trigger.

* **Declare Action:** When you declare the Action, you must immediately spend the Action Points required to take that Action. The Multiple Check Penalty from this turn applies to any Checks you make as part of this Reaction.
* **State Trigger:** The Trigger must be an observable event such as, “I want to wait until an enemy moves into range to make an Attack against them,” “I want to wait until I see my ally get out of range before I shoot the barrel filled with explosives,” or something else.
* **Take Reaction:** If the stated Trigger occurs at any time before the start of your next turn, then you can take the declared Action as a Reaction. If the Reaction requires you to spend any additional resources, such as Stamina Points or Mana Points, you spend them now. Your Reaction interrupts the events stated in the Trigger, allowing you to act before the events resolve. If the Trigger never occurs, then the declared Action can’t be taken and the AP spent is wasted.

> **Example:** It’s your turn and you have 2 AP remaining to spend, but you really want to work together with an ally. You tell the GM that you want to spend 2 AP on Held Actions. You declare that you will be taking the Move Action and the Attack Action and you spend 2 AP right now. You also state the Trigger for these Held Actions is “your ally is in melee range of an enemy”. Once the Trigger occurs you take those 2 Actions immediately. You take a Move Action to move to the creatures and then you make an Attack Action on a creature. If the creatures are too far away for 1 Move Action (1 AP), then you would only be able to move as far as you can and the Attack Action (1 AP) is wasted since you were not close enough to make an Attack. You can’t convert the 1 AP spent on the Attack Action into another Move Action, since that’s not what you declared.

> **DC Tip:** PCs can set triggers to be something less specific like, “I’m going to shoot an arrow at the next enemy I see.” Just make sure the PC and the GM are on the same page on what the intent of what they’re wanting to do is for their Reaction’s Trigger.